---
title: Talent Development (Galileo)
permalink: /life-at-nyjc/Talent-Development/talent-development-galileo/
description: ""
third_nav_title: Talent Development
---
**A Student-development Programme**

Every year in July, NYJCians who have exhibited outstanding character, academic achievement and leadership potential, are invited to join one of the most prestigious programmes in the college – NYJC Galileo. A student development programme, NYJC Galileo aspires to help students develop values and skills, and become active global citizens who are keen to contribute to society as they learn to stretch their potential in life. To achieve this aim, NYJC Galileo partners with different Co-Curricular Activities and college committees to organise and coordinate a range of workshops and activities throughout the year to cater to the needs of different students.

Some highlights include the Community Leadership Exposure Workshop and the NUS STEP Sunburst Youthcamp. These experiences have allowed our students to learn a variety of soft skills such as effective communication and problem-solving skills. Students have also managed to broaden their perspectives through various sharing and dialogue sessions such as the Ministerial Dialogue on Singapore’s approach to Foreign Affairs hosted by NTU and the Public Service and Public-Mindedness Sharing conducted by our Principal, Mr Low Chun Meng.

Every year, two teams of Year Two Galileo students are also involved in the Nanyang Junior College – Braddell Heights CCC Community Leadership Programme (CLP). A six-month long student-leadership programme, the CLP provides a range of experiences to participants, such as Block Visits and Meet-the-People Sessions. Through these involvement, participants plan and carry out a project to try to improve the lives of residents in the Braddell Heights community. Besides providing service to the wider community, the CLP also helps students develop qualities such as empathy, flexibility and teamwork. In 2019, one of the teams conduct a one-day ‘Back To School’ event, where the elderly attended a Zumba workout in the morning followed by a nostalgic school visit, that included "lessons" and "homework" educating them how to use the Healthy 365 App by the Health Promotion Board.

Hoping to inspire and motivate students, various leaders in society – entrepreneurs, poets and company directors were invited to share their journey in achieving success in their different areas of passion under our Leadership Series, another flagship programme of NYJC Galileo. In Term 4 of 2019 for instance, we had the privilege of having Associate Professor Lum Kit-Wye, Advocate & Solicitor of the Supreme Court of Singapore, Associate Dean at the Nanyang Business School (NTU), and mediator with the Singapore Mediation Centre, to share her colourful experiences with our students. Always popular with Galileo students, the series saw past speakers such as Mr Tong Yee, co-founder of The Thought Collective, and Mr Jason Wong, founder of the Yellow Ribbon Project and Dads for Life movement.

Another well-received programme is the Galileo Fire-side Chat, sometimes held as a Webinar, where NYJC Galileo alumni share with our students about their undergraduate lives in university, the importance of curating personal development, and the pros and cons of scholarships.

<b>Reflections</b>

<p><strong>Galileo: Darren Ang Soon Peng</strong></p>
<p>University:&nbsp;<u>University of California, Los Angeles</u></p>
<p>Degree pursuing:&nbsp;<u>Sociology</u></p>
<p>Scholarship awarded:&nbsp;<u>Overseas Merit Scholarship / SAF Overseas Scholarship</u></p>

<p><strong>Darren&rsquo;s reflection on NYJC Galileo</strong></p>
<p>NYJC Galileo, in my opinion, can be summed up in one word: Opportunity.</p>
<p>That was why I signed up for the programme, right after Orientation, despite hearing seniors' accounts of how hectic junior college life was going to get. I wanted to see more, do more, and take away an experience richer than the average junior college student's. Of course, obtaining a scholarship upon graduation was an aim of mine, but I'd decided that, scholarship or not, the opportunities in themselves were already worthwhile experiences.</p>
<p>From talks by overseas universities, SATs and interview workshops, to the National Day Rally, MINDEF Internship Programme and a six-month community leadership programme with Braddell-Heights CCC, SDP provided me with so many different opportunities that I would be hard-pressed to find elsewhere.</p>
<p>Beyond the opportunities provided, the teachers in NYJC Galileo Committee imbued in me the belief that I could compete with the best of them. Indeed, as I look back, I would have been a rather different individual if not for NYJC Galileo. As a parting shot, I just want to say that the opportunities will always be there, and in fact continue to increase, but whether you let them slip past or make the most of them in your two years in Nanyang Junior College &ndash; the decision is for you to make.</p>
<p><strong>Galileo: Justin Ng Thian Huat</strong></p>
<p>University:&nbsp;<u>Imperial College London</u></p>
<p>Degree pursuing:&nbsp;<u>Civil Engineering</u></p>
<p>Scholarship awarded:&nbsp;<u>Singapore Government Scholarship (Open)</u></p>
<p><strong>Justin&rsquo;s reflection on NYJC Galileo</strong></p>
<p>Kurt Hahn, the founder of Outward Bound School, once said: &ldquo;There is more in us than we know if we could be made to see it; perhaps, for the rest of our lives we will be unwilling to settle for less.&rdquo; Many Outward Bound schools use that quote to describe how their programmes change people&rsquo;s lives for the better. Well, I could safely say the same for my experience in NYJC Galileo.</p>
<p>Being in NYJC Galileo has certainly exposed me to many things. The myriad of programmes, ranging from SAT Training to Personal Grooming workshops, had taught me many things which mere academic study could not. I have matured and become an analytical individual due to the talks that NYJC Galileo sends its students for. One example is the Temasek Dialogue held annually which discusses many issues such as the growth, sustainability and development of Singapore&rsquo;s defence.</p>
<p>Moreover, one of the plus points about NYJC Galileo is its dedicated and effective team of teachers. The teachers in NYJC Galileo Committee will always go the extra mile to help their students. I was one of those who benefitted from their constant coaching.I remember that I was an individual who was really nervous and fidgety whenever it came to public speaking or interview sessions. The teachers would arrange mock interview sessions to better prepare me for interviews. The numerous coaching sessions have paid off as I have become a more confident individual who no longer stammers during interviews.</p>
<p>Lastly, my word of advice for those who are interested in being part of or who wish to find out more about NYJC Galileo: The two years in Junior College are crucial to your development. Joining NYJC Galileo is opening up a window of opportunity for you to become a more informed and mature individual. I made that step to join NYJC Galileo three years ago when I first stepped into Nanyang Junior College and to date, I have not regretted my choice as it developed me holistically. Even in National Service, I find the skills I learnt useful and applicable. In view of this, I hope that you will be able to benefit from joining NYJC Galileo, just like I did.<br /></p>
<h2><strong>Further Information<br /></strong></h2>
<p>Please approach&nbsp;<a href="mailto:chng_yongxi@schools.gov.sg" target="_blank" rel="noopener">Mr Chng Yongxi</a>&nbsp;if you have any queries on NYJC Galileo and talent development in Nanyang JC. To find out more about the public service, please visit&nbsp;<a href="https://www.scholarships.gov.sg/" target="_blank" rel="noopener" data-saferedirecturl="https://www.google.com/url?q=https://www.scholarships.gov.sg/&amp;source=gmail&amp;ust=1579660342404000&amp;usg=AFQjCNEno2t7EBDsNg8K-LkfjJm7DBzLJA">https://www.<wbr />scholarships.gov.sg/</a>,&nbsp;a&nbsp;<wbr />website that brings together all information on public sector scholarships and public service careers on a single platform.</p>