---
title: Information on Sexuality Education Programme
permalink: /life-at-nyjc/character-development/information-on-sexuality-education-programme/
description: ""
third_nav_title: Character Development
variant: tiptap
---
<p><strong>NANYANG JUNIOR COLLEGE</strong><br><br><strong>Moe Sexuality Education in Schools</strong></p><p>1.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Sexuality Education (SEd) in schools aims to enable students to understand the physiological, social and emotional changes they experience as they mature, develop healthy and rewarding relationships with others, including those with members of the opposite sex, and make wise, informed and responsible decisions on sexuality matters. SEd is premised on the importance of the family as the basic unit of society. This means encouraging healthy, heterosexual marriages and stable nuclear family units with extended family support. The teaching and learning of SEd is based on respect for the values and beliefs of the different ethnic and religious communities in Singapore on sexuality issues.</p><p>2.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; The <strong>Goals</strong> of Sexuality Education are to:</p><p>(a) Support students in managing their physiological, social and emotional changes as they grow up and develop safe and healthy relationships.<br>(b) Guide students to make wise, informed and responsible decisions on sexuality matters.<br>(c) Help students develop a moral compass and respect for themselves and others by having positive mainstream values and attitudes about sexuality that are premised on the family as the basic unit of society.</p><p></p><p>3.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; The <strong>Key Messages</strong> of Sexuality Education are:<br><br>(a) Love and respect yourself as you love and respect others;<br>(b)&nbsp;Build positive relationships based on love and respect (which are the foundation for strong families);<br>(c)&nbsp;Make responsible decisions for yourself, your family and society; and<br>(d)&nbsp;Abstinence before marriage is the best protection against STIs/HIV and unintended pregnancies. Casual sex can harm and hurt you and your loved ones.<br><br>You may click <a href="https://go.gov.sg/moe-sexuality-education" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">here</a> for more information on MOE Sexuality Education.</p><p></p><p><strong>Overview of &nbsp;nanyang Junior College’s Sexuality Education Programme for 2024</strong><br><br>4.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Sexuality Education is delivered in a holistic manner through the school curriculum. The content for Sexuality Education is grouped into five main themes: Human Development, Interpersonal Relationships, Sexual Health, Sexual Behaviour, and, Culture, Society and Law. You may click <a href="https://go.gov.sg/moe-sexuality-education-scope" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">here</a> for more information on the scope of Sexuality Education in the school curriculum.</p><p><strong>Sexuality Education</strong>:<br><br>5.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; The focus for Sexuality Education at Pre-University is on respectful relationships. Specifically, the JC/MI package covers themes of Interpersonal Relationships, Sexual Health, Sexual Behaviour, and Culture, Society and Law woven into the main focus on relationships.<br><br><strong>At Nanyang Junior College, the following Sexuality Education lessons will be taught in <u>2024</u>:</strong><br><br><br><strong>2024 Sexuality Education Lessons in CCE 2024</strong><br><br><strong>&nbsp;JC1</strong></p><table><tbody><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>MODULE / THEME</strong></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>LESSON TITLE / DURATION</strong></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Lesson Overview</strong></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>TIME PERIOD</strong></p><p><strong>(e.g. Term 1 Week 8)</strong></p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="3" colspan="1"><p>Developing Healthy Relationships/</p><p>Theme 3B 'Sexual Health and Behaviour’</p><p>&nbsp;</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>What Are Your #relationshipgoals?</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>(60 mins)</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><em>What are unhealthy relationships and who can I turn to if I need help? How does one manage aggression, both physical and emotional, in relationships?</em></p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>In this lesson, students will learn to navigate challenges in a dating relationship. This includes identifying unhealthy relationships, when to seek help, who to turn to for support and to appreciate that one can emerge stronger and be better prepared for future relationships.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Students will have a deeper understanding of what dating and family violence entails and be reminded of the importance of respect for others.</p><p>&nbsp;</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Term 2 Week 5</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>If Not Now When</p><p>(Part 1)</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>(60 mins)</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><em>Are values such as abstinence of sexual activity before marriage still valid in the world today? Why? Is abstinence a reasonable choice?</em></p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>In this lesson, students examine issues related to abstinence and explore the balance between being free to make personal choices and being responsible for the consequences of their choices. They will understand that, in the face of conflicting voices and perspectives, they need to focus on integrity, and choose to act in accordance with sound values and moral principles.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>In so doing, students learn to make responsible decisions for self and others, and think through the consequences of doing so.</p><p>&nbsp;</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Term 2 Week 7</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>If Not Now When</p><p>(Part 2)</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>(60&nbsp; mins)</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><em>Is one’s personal choice more important than considering the impact and consequences of one’s choice on others?</em></p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>In this lesson, students examine issues related to abortion and the impact of sexually transmitted infections (STIs), and understand that one has to make responsible decisions for both self and others.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Students are also taught to consider sexual abstinence before marriage to remove any risks that come with casual sex. The lesson will also focus on being a source of support for others who may be pregnant or have STIs.</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Term 2 Week 8</p></td></tr></tbody></table><p>&nbsp;<br><strong>2024 Sexuality Education Lessons in CCE 2021|</strong><br><br><strong>JC2&nbsp;</strong></p><table><tbody><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>MODULE / THEME</strong></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>LESSON TITLE / DURATION</strong></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Lesson OVERVIEW</strong></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>TIME PERIOD</strong></p><p><strong>(e.g. Term 1 Week 8)</strong></p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="2" colspan="1"><p>Developing Healthy Relationships/</p><p>Theme 3C ‘Society, Culture and the Law’.</p><p>&nbsp;</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Why is Voyeurism Wrong?</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>(60 mins)</p><p>&nbsp;</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><em>Is voyeurism wrong? Why?</em></p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>In this lesson, students will examine the relationship between rights and responsibilities by exploring societal expectations, the laws that protect teenagers from sexual crimes, and the legal consequences of inappropriate sexual behaviour.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Students will examine what makes voyeurism wrong, learn the importance of the law as signposts for desired behaviours and conduct in society, and the importance of one’s moral compass in responsible decision-making and choosing to do what is right.</p><p>&nbsp;</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Term 2 Week 1</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Overcoming Stereotypes</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>(60 mins)</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><em>How does the media portray gender and relationships? How do societal influences affect our understanding of gender stereotypes?</em></p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>In this lesson, students will recognise that some segments of society may inaccurately reflect the efforts needed to maintain healthy relationships, leading to skewed assumptions of sexual messages and connotations within relationships.</p><p>Students will understand how societal influences can skew one’s understanding of gender stereotypes (e.g. boys should not cry, and are to suppress emotional sensitivity so as not to seem weak; girls are physically weak and unathletic, and downplay achievements so as to fit in), which can affect interactions and relationships in ways that are harmful to themselves and others.</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>&nbsp;&nbsp; Term 2 Week 4</p></td></tr></tbody></table><p><br><strong><em><u>eTeens</u></em><u> Programme</u></strong>:</p><p>6.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; <em>eTeens</em> is a programme developed by Health Promotion Board, in collaboration with the Ministry of Education, to provide JC/MI Year 1 students with accurate information on STIs/HIV and protection from a health perspective. The desired outcome of the eTeens programme is that students are empowered to make wise, informed and sensible decisions.</p><p>7.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Students learn the health, social and financial implications of STIs/HIV on an individual and the family, and the importance of responsible decision-making and seeking help. Abstinence and upholding family values are the key messages.</p><p><strong>At Nanyang Junior College, the <em>eTeens</em> programme will be implemented as follows in 2024:</strong></p><p><strong>&nbsp;</strong></p><table><tbody><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Topics/Lessons</strong></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Programme Learning Objectives</strong></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Time Period</strong></p><p><strong>(e.g. Term 3 Week 2)</strong></p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Mass Talk by HPB appointed vendor</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; infectious diseases (STIs and HIV)</p><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; modes of transmission for STIs and HIV</p><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; modes of protection against infection, specifically abstinence and the correct and consistent use of condoms</p><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; consequences and impact of being infected with STIs/HIV</p><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; ways of managing the impact of STIs</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Term 2 Week 7</p></td></tr></tbody></table><p><strong>&nbsp;</strong><br><strong>Information for Parents</strong></p><p>8.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Parents may opt their children out of Sexuality Education and/or supplementary Sexuality Education programmes by MOE-approved external providers.</p><p>9.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Parents who wish to opt their children out of the Sexuality Education lessons need to complete an opt-out form. This form will be communicated to parents at the start of the year and is also downloadable <a href="/files/Annex_A_Growing_Years_Parent_Opt_out_Form_NYJC_2024.pdf" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">here</a>. The completed form is to be submitted by 01/03/2024.</p><p>10.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Parents who wish to opt their children out of the <strong><em>eTeens</em> programme</strong> need to complete an opt-out form. This form will be communicated to parents at the start of the year and is also downloadable <a href="/files/Annex_B_eTeens_Parent_Opt_Out_Form_NYJC_2024.pdf" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank"><u>here</u></a>. The completed form is to be submitted by 01/03/2024.</p><p>11. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Parents can contact the school at <a rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">nyjc@moe.edu.sg</a> for discussion or to seek clarification about the school’s Sexuality Education programme.</p><p><br></p>